Latest updates: hps://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/309847.310101
ARTICLE
LISA—machine description language for cycle-accurate models of
programmable DSP architectures
STEFAN PEES, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany
ANDREAS HOFFMANN, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany
VOJIN ZIVOJNOVIĆ
HEINRICH MEYR, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany
Open Access Support provided by:
RWTH Aachen University
PDF Download
309847.310101.pdf
23 February 2026
Total Citations: 90
Total Downloads: 1306
Published: 01 June 1999
Citation in BibTeX format
DAC99: The 36th ACM/IEEE-CAS/EDAC
Design Automation Conference
June 21 - 25, 1999
Louisiana, New Orleans, USA
Conference Sponsors:
SIGDA
DAC '99: Proceedings of the 36th annual ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference (June 1999)
hps://doi.org/10.1145/309847.310101
ISBN: 1581131097
.
51.2
LISA - Machine Description Language for Cycle-Accurate Models of
Programmable DSP Architectures
Stefan Peesl, Andreas Hoffmannl, Vojin Zivojnovic2, Heinrich Meyrl
‘Integrated Signal Processing Systems 2AXYS Design Automation, Inc.
Aachen University of Technology 135 Santa Louisa
Aachen, Germany Irvine, CA 92606, USA
pees,hoffmann,meyr@ert.rwth-aachen.de vz@axysdesign.com
Abstract - This paper presents the machine description language LISA for the generation of bitand cycle accurate models of DSP processors.
Based on a behavioral operation description, the
architectural details and pipeline operations of
modern DSP processors can be covered. Beyond the behavioral model, LISA descriptions include other architecture-related information like
the instruction set. The information provided
by LISA models enables automatic generation
of simulators and assemblers which are essential
elements of DSP software development environments. In order to proof the applicability of our
approach, a realized model of the Texas Instruments TMS320C6201 DSP is presented and derived LISA code examples are given.
1 Introduction
Designers of today’s telecommunication products such as cellular phones, modems, and networking devices are facing a
rapidly growing system complexity. Driven by the advances
in semiconductor technology and the need for new applications, the amount of system functionality that is realized on
a single chip is increasing enormously. Due to the complexity and time-to-market constraints, the designer’s productivity has become an important factor for successful products.
For this reason, off-the-shelf digital signal processors (DSPs),
application-specific instruction-set processors (ASIPs), and
other programmable components are increasingly employed
into systems and a growing amount of system functions is implemented in software instead of hardware. The programmability helps to rise the designer’s productivity and the flexibility of software allows late design changes, thus shortening
design cycles.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full
citation on the first page. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to
redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee.
DAC 99, New Orleans, Louisiana
01999 ACM l-581 13-092-9/99/COJ6..$5.00
Integrating complete systems consisting of hardware and
software components on a single chip raises new challenges
in the area of verification. Since hardware based models and
prototypes cannot be used, the complete system must be
verified by means of simulation. Co-simulation of hardware
and software puts specific requirements on the simulation accuracy of the programmable side. Generally, it is essential
for designers of these systems to use cycle-accurate processor
models because modern DSPs and microcontrollers implement deep pipelines. The complex pipeline mechanisms have
a significant impact on the performance and cannot be covered by models which just accumulate instruction latencies
since they have to cope with the requirements of cycle-based
or even event-driven simulation of hardware components.
All embedded processors like DSPs and ASIPs need a complete tool set consisting of code-generation and simulation
tools. Especially the task of building a custom simulator for
new architectures is extremely error-prone and tedious. It
is a very lengthy process of matching the simulator to an
abstract model of the processor architecture. These efforts
can be reduced significantly by using a retargetable simulator
which is generated from machine descriptions.
The task of retargeting different tools like the compiler, the
assembler, and the simulator of a given processor requires
different types of architecture related information. This information can be described in different models.
The memory model lists the registers and memories of
the system with their respective bit widths, ranges, and
aliasing.
The resource model describes the available hardware resources and the resource requirements of operations.
Resources reproduce the properties of hardware structures which can be used exclusively by one operation at
a time.
In the behavioral model, the activities of hardware structures are abstracted to operations changing the state
of the system. The abstraction level of this model
can range widely between the hardware implementation
level and the level of high-level language (HLL) statements.
The instruction set model collects all instructions as
combinations of hardware operations which are permitted by the CPU controller. Furthermore, it comprises
933 
the instruction semantics and their formal representation, such as admissible operands, binary representation
and the assembly syntax.
l In the timing model, the activation sequence of hardware
operations and units is specified.
1.1 LISA Language Approach
LISA is a language designed for the formalized description
of programmable architectures, their peripherals, and interfaces [l]. Its development was necessary since existing approaches are not able to produce cycle-accurate models of
modern DSP architectures (for example the TI TMS320C6x
[2]) and to cover their instruction-set. The language as presented in this paper, is able to support DSP and embedded
SIMD and VLIW processor architectures with deep pipelines,
like the TMS320C62xx of TI which was used as the test case.
LISA supports different description styles and models at various abstraction levels. Similar to other programming languages, the user has a high degree of freedom to describe his
view of the architecture. Furthermore, hierarchical modeling
style is supported to allow structuring and easy maintenance
of the code. Due to its C-like syntax, LISA can be easily
and intuitively used by designers and exchanged as a nonambiguous specification of the target architecture. Such a
specification is a very valuable replacement for the textual
documentation written by designers which is usually faulty
and not up-to-date. The approach of using the LISA language even enables the automatic generation of such text
book documentation.
2 Previous Work
Hardware description languages (HDLs) like VHDL or Verilog are widely used to model and simulate processors, but
mainly with the goal of developing hardware. Using these
models for instruction-level processor design has a number
of disadvantages. They cover hardware implementation details which are not needed for performance evaluation and
software verification. Moreover, the description of detailed
hardware structures has a significant impact on simulation
speed [3]. Another problem is that the extraction of the instruction set is a highly complex task and instruction set information, like e.g. assembly syntax cannot be obtained from
HDL descriptions.
Many publications on machine description languages are focused on retargetable compilation for embedded processors.
The approaches of Maril [4] as part of the Marion environment and a system for VLIW compilation [5] are both using
reservation tables for code generation. But reservation tables
cannot be used to describe pipeline operations like flushes or
to model pipeline hazards.
Several publications address retargetable compilation and
simulation. The language nML was developed at TU Berlin
[6] and adopted in several projects, [7, 81. While retargetable
assemblers and disassemblers can be generated for some DSP
processors, it is not possible to produce cycle-accurate simulators for pipelined processor architectures. The main reason
is the simple underlying instruction sequencer which does not
support pipeline operations like e.g. flushes. Processors with
more complex execution schemes like the Texas Instruments
TMS320C6x [2] cannot be described, even at the instructionset level, because of the numerous combinations of parallel
and sequential instructions within a fetch packet. Another
significant restriction of nML is that the same information
(action attribute) is used for the instruction selection task
of the compiler and the description of the operation behavior for the simulator. Consequently, instruction semantics
and instruction behavior are merged and described at the
same abstraction level. These restrictions also apply to the
approach of ISDL [9] which is similar to nML and to the
machine description MDES which parameterizes the experimental PlayDoh architecture [lo]. A similar approach is the
language EXPRESSION [ll] which incorporates particular
mechanisms for the description of memory hierarchies. However, no results are published that indicate the applicability
for cycle-accurate simulation purposes.
The language RADL [12] is derived from earlier work on LISA
[1] and extended to support multiple pipelines. But again,
no results are provided on realized simulators based on this
language.
To summarize the review, none of the approaches above does
support cycle-accurate simulation or fast processor simulators that are based on compiled techniques [13]. Our interest
in supporting this technique and the issue of realizing cycleaccurate processor models motivated the introduction of the
language LISA.
3 LISA Language
In many aspects, LISA incorporates ideas which are similar
to nML. However, it turned out from our experience with
different DSP architectures that significant limitations of existing machine description languages must be overcome to
allow the description of modern commercial DSPs. For this
reason, LISA includes improvements in the following areas:
Support of cycle-accurate processor models, including
constructs to specify pipelines and their mechanisms,
The target class of processors includes SIMD, VLIW,
and superscalar architectures of real products currently
on the market,
Direct support for compiled simulation techniques,
Strong orientation on the programming language C,
Distinction between behavior and semantics to freely
determine the abstraction level of the processor model,
Support for instruction aliasing and complex instruction
coding schemes.
LISA descriptions are composed of resource declarations on
the one hand and of operations on the other hand. The declared resources represent the storage objects of the hardware
architecture (e.g. registers, memories, pipelines) which capture the state of the system and which can be used to model
the limited availability of resources for operation access. Section 3.1 provides a discussion of resource declarations.
Operations are the basic objects in LISA. They represent
the designer’s view of the behavior, the structure, and the
934 
instruction set of the programmable architecture. Operation
definitions collect the description of different properties of the
system, i.e. operation behavior, instruction set information,
and timing. These operation attributes are defined in several
sections.
l The CODING section describes the binary image of
the instruction word which is part of the instruction
set model.
l The SYNTAX section describes the assembly syntax
of instructions and their operands which is part of the
instruction set model.
l The SEMANTICS section specifies the instruction semantics.
l The BEHAVIOR and EXPRESSION sections describe
components of the behavioral model. During simulation, the operation behavior is executed and modifies
the values of resources which drives the system into a
new state.
l The ACTIVATION section describes the timing of
other operations relative to the current operation.
l The DECLARE section contains local declarations of
identifiers and lists of alternative elements (GROUP).
Beyond these sections, which are predefined in LISA, the
designer may add further sections in order to describe other
attributes, like e.g. power consumption.
The designer has the full freedom to determine the abstraction level of his model based on the operations. For example,
one instruction of a processor may be represented by just
one operation in case of an instruction set model. In another
case, it may be described by a whole set of operations which
represent the separate actions between clock cycles in case
of a cycle-accurate model. A presentation of the operation
sections is given in section 3.2.
3.1 Resources
The resource section lists the definitions of all objects which
are required to build the memory model and the resource
model. Object definitions in the resource section contribute
to both models, automatically receiving the properties of a
memory element and a resource element. It depends on the
operation’s functionality if both or only one of these properties is used. A register and a pipeline stage for example may
both have the properties of a resource but only the register is
used in statements of the operation behavior. A detailed discussion of the role of resources in our generic machine model
can be found in [l].
RESOURCE (
PROGRAl4~COUNTRR intpc;
CONTROLJlECISTF.R int instruction-register;
REGISTER bitC481 accu;
RRGISTER bit carry;
DATAJWORY int data~memlC0x80000l;
DATAJEHORY int data~mem2[41~C0x200001~;
PROCRAMJ4EHORY int prog~memC0x100..OxFFFFl;
?
Example 1: Declaration of resources.
The resource section begins with the keyword RESOURCE
followed by braces enclosing all object definitions. The
definitions are made in C-style and can be attributed
with one of the keywords REGISTER, CONTROL-REGISTER,
PROGRAM-COUNTER, DATAJEZHORY, or PROGRAM-MEMORY. These
keywords are not mandatory but they are used to classify
the definitions. Example 1 shows.the declaration of several
resources.
The LISA language provides designated mechanisms to
model pipelines of a processor architecture. The principle of
this pipeline model is that operations are assigned to pipeline
stages. But before this mechanisms can be used, the respective pipelines must be defined in the RESOURCE section.
The declaration starts with the keyword PIPELINE, followed by an identifier as the name of the pipeline and the
list of stages as shown in example 2.
PIPELINE fetch-pipe = i PC; PS; PU; PR; DP 1;
3
PIPELINE execute-pipe = t DC; El; E2; E3; E4; E5 1,
Example 2: Pipeline definition.
The stage identifiers are enclosed in braces and separated
by semicolons. They are ordered with the first stage first.
Operations are assigned to a certain pipeline stage by using
the name of the pipeline followed by a dot and the identifier
of the respective stage, such as pipe. DC for example.
3.2 Operations
Operations are formed by a header line and the operation
body. The header line consists of the keyword OPERATION, the identifying name of the operation, and possible
options:
OPERATION name-of -operation [options]
{
sections. . .
I
Enclosed in (curly) braces, the operation body contains the
different sections which describe the properties of the instruction set model, the behavioral model, the timing model, and
required declarations.
3.2.1 Instruction Set Model
In the CODING section the elements are specified as a sequence of coding objects. The coding objects can be either a
sequence of binary code or a reference to the coding section
of another operation. Binary code is specified as a sequence
composed of 0, 1, and x which is preceded by a Ob. So, the
binary sequence for the decimal value 28 would be written as
OblllOO.
During decoding, the bit pattern must match the provided
instruction word to select a specific operation or resource.
During encoding, the same pattern is used to generate the
respective instruction word. The x matches always (don’t
care bit).
935 
Object references are the identifiers of other operations which
include a coding section as well. Thus, the coding information of the referenced operation is inserted at the respective
position. A sample coding section could look like this:
CODING { ObOOlOlllOl x-operand y-operand result )
In order to identify instructions, the coding sequences of all
defined operations must be compared to the actual value of
the current instruction word. This is specified in the coding
section by comparing one or more resource values to the coding sequence. The compare operator == separates the identifier of the resource which shall be compared (on the left hand
side) from the coding sequence (on the right hand side). This
comparison represents the top object in the coding tree.
OPERATION f
DECLARE t
CROUP Instruction = f abs II add II and II cmp II Id
II mu1 II mv II norm II not II
or II aat II sub II st ll XOT 1;
I
CODING f instruction-register == Instruction 1
SYNTAX fInstruction 1
BRBAVIOR f Instruction 1
I
Example 3: Root of the coding tree.
The purpose of the SYNTAX section is to describe the syntax of assembly instructions. It is specified as a textual description of the instruction mnemonics, the operands, and
the numeric parameters evaluating to a string of characters.
Instruction mnemonics are specified as strings enclosed in
quotation marks. Operands may be specified by referencing
other operations or as immediate values.
During assembly, the string pattern must match the provided
assembly statement to select a specific operation or resource.
During disassembly, the same pattern is used to generate the
respective assembly statement.
Object references are the identifiers of other operations which
include a syntax section as well. Thus, the syntax information of the referenced operation is inserted at the respective
position. A sample syntax declaration could look like this:
SYNTAX { “ADD” x-operand ‘I, I’ y-operand:#S
“,” result “;” }
3.2.2 Declare Section
Similar to programming languages, LISA requires symbol
declarations for all objects used in operations. The DECLARE section collects four types of symbols which are introduced here:
l declaration of operation references,
l definition of operation groups,
l declaration of group references,
l and declaration of inter-section references (labels).
The purpose of groups is to list alternative operations which
are used in the same context. They correspond to the mechanism of or-rules in nML. The group name replaces the reference to a specific operation which is part of this group. A
typical application for the use of groups are admissible source
and destination operands of instructions.
Group definitions are located in the DECLARE section and
identified by their name which is followed by the group members. Each member of the group must be an operation identifier. Group members are selected based on the coding or syntax information provided in the respective operations which
has to match the current instruction coding or the current
assembly statement (see example 4).
The groups srcl, src2, and dest are instantiations of the
same operation group consisting of only one element - the
operation register. They are the admissible source and destination operands for operation add-d and used in the coding
and in the syntax section. All operations listed in the group
declaration must provide coding as well as syntax information in order to enable operation selection.
OPERATION add-d
f
DECLARE f CROUP Dast, Srcl, SrcZ = f register >; 1
CODING f Dest Src2 Srcl ObOlOOOO OblOOOO 1
SYNTAX f "ADD" ".D" Srcl "," Src2 ",'I Dest 1
BEHAVIOR fDest = .%-cl + Src2; 1
I
OPERATION register
f
DECLARE f LABEL index; )
CODING f Obx index:Obx[4] )
SYNTAX f “A” index:tU )
EXPRESSION f ACindexl 1
I
Example 4: Operation groups.
The declaration of the label index in operation register
is an inter-section reference. It is used to link elements of
different sections. The last four bits of the coding are linked
to the numerical parameter in the syntax. This combination
forms a translation rule to be used by the assembler or the
disassembler. For example, the assembler statement
ADD .D A4, A3, Al!i;
would be translated into the binary code
01111 00011 00100 010000 10000.
3.2.3 Behavioral Model
The BEHAVIOR section describes the behavior of operations based on the programming language C. The whole section can be seen as the implementation body of a function.
As in any basic block in C, local variables can be declared
here. Within the behavioral code, groups and direct references to other operations are permitted. The referenced operations either provide further behavior code or expressions
which allow to access resources.
The EXPRESSION section identifies an object which is accessed by the behavior part of a referencing operation. These
expressions are typically used for operands and other resource
accesses. In effect, they represent the mechanism of modes in
nML. Example 4 depicts the operation add-d which accesses
the expressions identified in operation register. According
to this example, the assembly statement
936 
ADD .D A3, A4, A0
would cause the foilowing behavioral code to be executed
during simulation:
AC01 = AC33 + A[43;
3.2.4 Timing Model
In cycle-accurate machine models, all effects of pipelines in
the processor architecture become visible and have to be described. LISA assumes all operations to be executed synchronously to control steps. The designer has the freedom
to determine if these control steps correspond to instruction
cycles, clock cycles or even phases. Based on these control
steps, LISA incorporates a generic pipeline model with two
major mechanisms:
l operation assignment to the stage of a pipeline and
l activation of operations with or without delay.
In order to deal with the complex pipelines of modern DSP
processors, LISA allows the description of multiple pipelines
and supports typical pipeline operations, such as stalls and
flushes. Beyond these mechanisms, the generic pipeline
is open for user-defined operations which supplement the
pipeline control mechanisms.
Operations can be assigned to those pipelines defined in the
RESOURCE section (see Example 2). The assignment is
made in the header line of the respective operation by appending the keyword IN and the identifier of the pipeline
stage such as
OPERATION add IN execute-pipe.El
The purpose of the ACTIVATION section is to describe the
activation timing of operations in the respective stage of a
pipeline. It supplements the behavior section which can only
call other operations in the same control step. In the activation section, operations can be activated in the same or
in subsequent control steps. This lets the designer e.g. concatenate operations which belong to the same instruction as
shown in Example 5.
OPERATION Prog-Address-Generate IN fetch-pipe.PC t..)
OPERATION Prog-Address-Send IN fetch-pipe.PS I..>
OPERATION Prog-Access-Ready-Wait IN fetch-pipe.PU I..>
OPERATION Prog-Fetch-Packet-Receive IN fetch-pipa.PR i..)
OPERATION main <
ACTIVATION {
if (dispatch-complete PP !multicycle-nap) i
Prog-Address-Generate, Prog-Address-Send.
Prog-Access-Ready-Wait,
Prog-Fetch-Packet-Receive, Dispatch
1
if (multicycle-nop) t
fetch-pipa.DP.stall 0;
execute-pipe.DC.stall 0;
I
fetch-pipa.shift.0;
execute-pipa.shiftO;
?
1
Example 5: Activation of operations.
Here, the operation main activates operations (e.g.
Program4ddress-Generate) under a certain condition. The
activation time is directly determined by the number of
stages (spatial distance) in the pipeline. Activation of operations which are assigned to the same pipeline stage are
activated in the same control step.
Besides this delay caused by the spatial distance, it is also
possible to add delays which are measured in control steps. In
general, the activation section consists of a list of operations
which are separated by the activation operators. There are
two types of operators:
l concurrent activation operator: comma (.) and
l delayed activation operator: semicolon ( ; ).
The same operators can be found in Maril for the notation
of operations in a pipeline. However, we allow the activation
to be embedded in control structures such as if-then-else and
switch-case.
3.2.5 Conditional Operation Structuring
One of the most crucial issues in the development of processor simulators is simulation speed [3]. It turned out from our
research studies that the technique of compiled simulation
can achieve speed-ups of more than two orders of magnitude
over interpretive processor simulators 1131. In order to support the generation of compiled simulators, LISA features
conditional structures on the operation-level that evaluate at
compile-time:
l IF-THEN-ELSE statements and
l SWITCH-CASE statements.
These conditional structures allow to select different blocks
of LISA code. They enclose one or more operation sections.
The selection is made based on the selection of group memOPERATION register {
DECLARE C GROUP Side = { side1 II side2 1;
LABEL index; 1
CODING iObx index:Obx[4] 1
SUITCK (Side) i
CASE sidel: t SYNTAX i “A” index:XU 1
EXPRESSION i ACindexl ) )
CASE side.2: t SYNTAX i "B" index.XU 1
EXPRESSION C BCindexl 1'1 >
I
OPERATION side1 C
CODING t Ob >
SYNTAX t "1" )
I
OPERATION side2 C
CODING t lb 1
SYNTAX t “2” 1
1
Example 6: Conditional operation structuring.
Example 6 depicts the operation register, which includes
a SWITCH-CASE statement to select between two register
sets. The selection of the respective syntax and expression
can already be determined at compile-time thus avoiding to
check the bit at run-time of the simulation. More details on
the LISA language can be found at [14].
937 
4 TI TMS320C6201 Simulator
In order to check the applicability and the use of the LISA
language, we realized models of different DSPs. Among
these, the most complex architecture is TI’s TMS320C6201.
In cooperation with Texas Instruments, a cycle-based LISA
model of this processor was realized by one designer within
less than two month. The description of the processor core
including memory interface and interrupt controller consists
of
l 54 resources and
l 256 operations comprising the full set of 156 real instructions and 8 instruction aliases
which adds up to 5362 lines of LISA code at an average of
approximately 21 lines of code per operation. It turned out
from our modeling experience that most issues and the hardest problems in the description of processor architectures only
appear if processor models are realized completely, including
all details and verified successfully.
4.1 Retargetable Development Tools
We have developed an environment of retargetable development tools that is configured by LISA descriptions. A
parser reads the LISA models and translates them into
an intermediate data base which is accessed by all other
tools. We implemented a retargetable compiled simulator
that is generated from this data base. The translation of the
TMS320C6201 processor model into the simulator takes only
30 seconds on a Spare Ultra 10 workstation.
The realized simulator was successfully verified against the
simulator sim62x from Texas Instruments based on a number
of typical DSP applications.
5 Conclusion and Future Work
LISA is a language which aims at the formal description
of programmable architectures, their peripherals, and interfaces. The language supports different description styles and
models at various abstraction levels. Its development was
necessary since existing approaches are not able to produce
cycle-accurate models of pipelined DSP architectures and to
cover their instruction-set. Furthermore, LISA enables the
principle of fast compiled simulation of embedded processors.
This paper provides an overview of the LISA language and
discusses modeling issues with sample LISA code derived
from a realized model of the TI TMS320C6201.
Our future work will focus on modeling further real-life processor architectures and the generation of fast simulators.
We will systematically investigate retargetable fast simulators based on compiled techniques and report on the simulation speed of this technology. Another issue is the integration
of software simulators into HW/SW co-simulation environments. Furthermore, the goal of the ongoing language design
is to address retargetable compiler back-ends as well.
6 Acknowledgement
The authors would like to thank Wanda Gass, Dan Pickens,
David Shoemaker, and Dave Thomas for their technical and
organizational support for this project.
References
111
[21
[31
[41
151
PI
I71
[81
[91
[101
VI
WI
P31
I141
V. iivojnoviC, S. Pees, and H. Meyr, “LISA - machine description language and generic machine model for HW/SW
co-design,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Workshop on
VLSI Signal Processing, (San Francisco), Oct. 1996.
Texas Instruments, TMS32OC62x/C67x CPU and Instruction Set Reference Guide, Mar. 1998.
J. Rowson, “Hardware/Software co-simulation,” in Proc. of
tt;,“CM/IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC),
D. Bradlee, R. Henry, and S. Eggers, “The Marion system
for retargetable instruction scheduling,” in Proc. ACM SIGPLAN’91 Conference on Programming Language Design
and Implementation, Toronto, Canada, pp. 229-240,199l.
B. Rau, “VLIW compilation driven by a machine description database,” in Proc. 2nd Code Generation Workshop,
Leuven, Belgium, 1996.
A. Fauth, J. Van Praet, and M. Freericks, “Describing instruction set processors using nML,” in Proc. European Design and Test Conf., Paris, Mar. 1995.
M. Hartoog, J. Rowson, et al., “Generation of software tools
from processor descriptions for hardware/software codesign,”
in Proc. of the ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC), Jun. 1997.
W. Geurts, D. Lanneer, et al., “Design of DSP systems with
Chess/Checkers, ” in 2nd Int. Workshop on Code Generation for Embedded Processors, (Leuven), Mar. 1996.
G. Hadjiyiannis, S. Hanono, and S. Devadas, “ISDL: An
instruction set description language for retargetability,” in
Proc. of the ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference
(DAC), Jun. 1997.
V. Kathail, M. Schlansker, and B. Rau, “HPL PlayDoh Architecture Specification: Version 1.0,” in HP Laboratories
Technical Report HPL-93-80, Mar. 1994.
A. Halambi, P. Grun, et al., “EXPRESSION: A language
for architecture exploration through compiler/simulator retargetability,” in Proceedings of the European Conference
on Design, Automation and Test (DATE), Mar. 199%
C. Siska, “A processor description language supporting retargetable multi-pipeline dsp program development tools,” in
Proceedings of the International Symposium on System
Synthesis (ISSS), Dec. 1998.
S. Pees, V. iivojnovit, A. Ropers, and H. Meyr, “Fast Simulation of the TI TMS 32OC54x DSP,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
on Signal Processing Application and Technology (ICSPAT), (San Diego), pp. 995-999, Sep. 1997.
http://www.ert.rwth-aachen.de/lisa/lisa.html.
938 